# The Buried Giant
Kazuo Ishiguro

## Read
05/2019
11/2020

## Tags
British Arthurian Love War Memory

## Quotes
It was not that Beatrice had believed all would be well once he had arrived; but
his presence had made all the difference to her (20)

I must ask them to put their most cherished memories before me (43)

When travelers speak of their most cherished memories, it's impossible for them
to disguise the truth. A couple may claim to be bonded by love, but we boatmen
may see instead resentment anger, even hatred. Or a great barrenness. Sometimes
its a fear of loneliness and nothing more (45)

By what strange skill did your great king heal the scars of war in these lands
that traveller can see barely a mark or shadow left of them today? (111)

Your kindness touches me, mistress... But, I'm no scoundrel and I won't take
rude advantage of it. What the Saxon says is true. Spare me and I'll do just as
he says, for duty allows me no other course. Yet I thank you for your gentle
words, and if these are to be my last moments, then I'll leave this world a
little more peacefully for them (121)

I won't believe it, sir. How is it possible to hate so deeply for deeds not yet
done? The good people who once took shelter here would have kept alive their
opes to the end, and surely watched all suffering, of friend and foe, with pity
and horror.
You're much the senior in years, Master Axl, but in matters of blood it may be
I'm the elder and you the youth. I've seen dark hatred as bottomless as the sea
on the faces of old women and tender children, and some days felt such hatred
myself (142)

What use is a god with boundless mercy, sir? You mock me as a pagan, yet the
gods of my ancestors pronounce clearly their ways and punish severely when we
break their laws. Your Christian god of mercy gives men license to pursue their
greed, their lust for land and blood, knowing a few prayers and a little penance
will bring forgiveness and blessing (151)

It was I won their trust, where first there was only fear and hatred. Today our
deeds make me a liar and a butcher, and I take no joy in Arthur's victory (213)

Has he fed the fear of that night again and again that it now sits in his belly
a giant worm? (221)

There are Britons who tempt our respect, even our love, I know this only too
well. But there are now greater things press on us than what each may feel for
another. It was Britons under Arthur slaughtered our kind. It was Britons took
your mother and mine. We've a duty to hate every man, woman and child of their
blood. So promise me this. Should I fall before I pass to you my skills, promise
me you'll tend well this hatred in your heart. And should it ever flicker or
threaten to die, shield it with care till the flame takes hold again. Will you
promise me this, Master Edwin (243)

Should memories return, and among them of times I disappointed you. Or yet of
dark deeds I may once have done to make you look at me and see no longer the man
you do now. Promise me this at least. Promise, princess, you'll not forget what
you feel in your heart for me at this moment. For what good's a memory's
returning from the mist if it's only to push away another? (258)

I pushed through the giant nettles-- is it for this I have worn this creaking
metal? To defend my shins from these feathery stings? (261)

Age cloaks us both, as the grass and weeds cloak the fields where we once fought
and slaughtered (263)

Doesn't every animal, every bird in the sky crave a tender companion? (271)

We all shared something of your anger, sir (273)

A great king, like God himself, must perform deeds mortals flinch from! Do you
think there were none that caught my eye? A tender flower or two passed on the
way I didn't long to press to my bosom? Is this metal coat to be my only
bedfellow? Who calls me a coward, sir? Or a slaughterer of babes? Where were you
that day? Were you with us? My helmet! I left it in those woods! But what need
of it now? The armor too I'd take off but I fear you all laughing to see the
skinned fox beneath! (275)

What kind of god is it, sir, wishes wrongs to go forgotten and unpunished? (285)

Yes, we slaughtered plenty, I admit it, caring not who was strong and who weak.
God may not have smilied at us, but we cleansed the land of war (285)

If it's vengeance you crave, it's a thing easily found (293)

Who knows what will come when quick-tongued man make ancient grievances rhyme
with fresh desire for land and conquest? (297)

Our son was witness to its, and at an age too old to be fooled with soft words,
yet too young to know the many strange ways of our hearts (312)

## Thoughts/Description

I absolutely love this book. I think it is the best book I have ever read to
date.

I love the complexity of Axel and Beatrice's relationship.

I love the inner workings of Wistan, what he holds.

I love Sir Gawain's way of speaking. His imagined exclaiming! of his thoughts.

I love the way the implications of the monastery tickles my brain

It is a low-key fantasy but high literature. Ishiguro truly does a beautiful job
of weaving together the narrative of our main characters: Axel, Beatrice, Master
Edwin, Master Wistan, Sir Gawain. Each character could be picked apart an
analyzed. Understanding the characters leads to an exploration of rich topics of
love, war, vengeance, and memory.

The adventure begins with Axel and Beatrice living in a land where people are
strangely forgetful. They set out to find their long lost son and in search of
their old, cherished memories. Along the way they come across a warrior, a
knight in shining armor, a dragon, and much more.

Everybody should read about this book.

Things to think about:
- Beatrice and Axl
- The boatman
- Sir Gawain (his armor, horse, manner of speaking)
- The warrior (his hate)
- The dragon

Things I have no idea about:
- the thematic significance of the boy
- The monks?

