# Free Food For Millionaires
Min Jin Lee

## Read
12/2020

## Tags
Asian-American Korean Money Wealth Love Family Community Christianity Religion

## Quotes

It's exciting, so exciting to be wanted by someone you like. And with love, it's
even more powerful because when you trust him, it's possible to surrender.
Completely (29)

Love is not the same as a promise to be together always (31)

Willyum liked his student's earnest face and admired her willingness to talk
about her faith. Her seriousness reminded him of his early beginnings at
university. He felt compelled to give her something–to tell her a bit about his
struggle. But he didn't want her to think that he was proselytizing, because he
didn't believe in that, and it would have been wrong to do so in his capacity,
he thought. He loathed thumpers as much as he disliked ex-smokers. But he also
believed that if there was a cure for cancer, how could he withhold such a
thing? "I think... if a mind can... a mind must wrestle before declaring
victory. Really wrestle. Do you understand?" Willyum did not release his
frown... "It's your soul you're fighting for" (45)

Casey loved her friend's letters. It was like receiving the pages of a genius's
diary, and because of her flowery style, the letters read as if from another
era. Virginia wrote in her unfiltered prose about her observations and desires,
never holding back her failures or doubts. In her writing, she directed her
thinking like a woman walking out of a maze, turning the coreners of events and
ideas. Casey admired Virginia's mind and hadn't known just how brilliant her
friend was until she'd started to receive her letters. And Virginia didn't hide
anythingthis was the thing Casey prized most about her (68)

Looking at Casey's suffering, Mary Ellen thought, the loss was real because the
love was real (87)

Casey coming to church had surprised him. He'd pegged her as a textbook
athiest–one of those know-it-alls who had the blind faith to explain the world
according to scientific theories that were being disproved every day yet were
unable to believe in things they weren't smart enough to rationalize (117)

But in general, he avoided discussions about religion. There was no way to win
them anyway, he thought, why bother. Whichever side you fell on, you had to
conclude with the statement "I believe..." rather than "I know" (117)

In her life she'd never struck another person, and she didn't think she'd ever
do so again. Having been hit herself, she knew what that felt like: You felt
dumb, ugly, and unlovable. Now that she'd hit Jay, she saw that she had
diminished him. And herself. He had gotten bigger than life to her, and she'd
had to punish him. Her body was shaky with feeling (122)

Douglas felt like a fool. She was married. A deaconess. He shook his head
briskly, as if he could cast off his feelings this way. Why did he never feel
anything like this–a kind of stirring in himself–for any of the number of single
women he was constantly being asked to meet? (133)

But Casey didn't say anything, unable to express the pain she felt. Her lips
whitened at the pressure of her jaw clenching. How could he possibly understand
what it would mean for her mother to find her here? She suddenly hated him for
being an American and herself for feeling so foreign when she was with him. She
hated his ideals of rugged individualism, self-determination–this vain idea that
life was what you made of it–as if it were some sort of paint-by-numbers kit.
Only the most selfish person on earth could live that way. Casey was selfish,
she knew that, but she had no wish to hurt anyone. If her rotten choices hurt
her, well then, she'd be willing to take that wager, but it was hard to think of
letting her parents down again and again. But her choices were always hurting
her parents, or so they said. Yet case was an American, too–she had a strong
desire to be happy and to have love, and she'd never considered such wishes to
be Korean ones (143)

Semiretired, Isaac worked only four hours a day, and he had a great deal of time
to think. And in his leisure, he thought about love. In the pursuit of his
ambition, he had neglected Kate; and after he became rich, he'd sported Carla
around like a fine race car; and with Sabine, he saw that he did not know how to
love her because she did not show him any need. Sabine was an ideal partner, and
he'd never leave her, but Isaac found himself sleeping with other women. At
sixty-seven years old, what he wanted more than anything was romance, and it
flabbergasted him that that this would never be possible with his wife. Sabine
was incapable of loving him in the way he wanted to be loved–with a desperation
or sloppiness. He had married her because she would never fall apart, but he saw
that all he wanted now was to care for a woman, and Sabine's self sufficiency
made him obsolete (153)

Even Casey's ridiculous, flamboyant impulses–at times damaging to herself–made
sense to Sabine, who despised emotional restraint (222)

And she was never wrong about people–the entirety of one's personality as
observable in the expression of the eyes (223)

"You're an incredibly kind person–you make me feel loved. Like I'm all right.
Like"–Casey took a breath–"I'm forgiven." The thought had taken her by surprise.
"No one else does that. And I've never told you. And I should have" (230)

The way Casey looked at Irene with love and pleasure made her feel cared for
somehow. It was a precious gift when another person loved your child. You
yourself felt loved (369)

Then at that moment, Casey felt everyone's brokenheartedness, including her own,
and she agreed with Ella: Love did not end. How could it? (369)

David studied her eyes as best he could, but he couldn't read them properly. Did
she love him, too? Ella wasn't a donor for the school or an old friend of his–he
could read most people instinctively. It was different when you were attracted to
someone; the reading came out fuzzy. All he could feel in this moment was his
wish–his wish for her to love him–and this wish was clouding his perception (418)

It had taken her a decade of therapy to figure out this invaluable lesson: Your
truest feelings led you to greater and greater success in life (582)

## Thoughts/Description

