# Letters to a Young Poet
Rainer Maria Rilke

## Read
03/2020

## Tags
Poetry Letters Self-Discovery Self-Realization Love Loss

## Quotes
Try to raise up the sunken feelings of this enormous past; your personality will
grow stronger, your solitude will expand and become a place where you can live
in the twilight, where noises of other people passes by, far in the
distance--and if out of this turning within, out of this immersion in your
world, poems come, then you will not think of asking anyone whether they are
good or not (8)

Because he loves only as a male, not as a human being, there is something narrow
in his sexual feeling, something that seems wild, malicious, time bound,
uneternal, which diminishes his art and makes it ambiguous and doubtful (27)

You are so young, so much before all beginning, and I would like to beg you,
dear Sir, as well as I can, to have patience with everything unresolved in your
heart and to try to love the questions themselves as if they were locked rooms
or books written in a very foreign language. Don't search for the answers, which
could not be given to you now, because you would not be able to live them. And
the point is to live everything. Live the questions now. Perhaps then, someday
far in the future, you will gradually, without even noticing it, live your way
into the answer (34)

He can remember that all beauty in animals and plants is a silent, enduring form
of love and yearning, and he can see the animal, as he sees the plants,
patiently and willingly uniting and multiplying and growing, not out of physical
pleasure, not out of physical pain, but bowing to necessaties that are greater
than pleasure and pain, more powerful than will and withstanding. If only human
beings could more humbly receive this mystery (37)

In one creative thought a thousand forgotten nights of love come to life again
and fill it with mystery and exaltation (39)

Perhaps the sexes are more akin than people think, and hte great renewal of the
world will perhaps consist in one phenomenon: that man and woo=man freed from
all mistaken feelings an aversions, will seek each other not as opposites but as
brother and sister, as neighbors, and will unite as human beings, in order to
bear in common simply, earnestly, and patiently, the heavy sex that has been
laid upon them (41)

What is happening in your innermost self is worthy of your entire love (56)

The love that consists in this: that two solitudes protect and border and greet
each other (78)

If only it were possible for us to see farther than our knowledge reaches, and
even a little beyond the outworks of our presentiment, perhaps we would bear our
sadnesses with greater trust than we have in our joys (83)

Strange feelings arise, which seem to grow out beyond all that is bearable (88)

Why do you want to persecute yourself with the question of where all of this is
coming from and where is it going? (93)

## Thoughts/Description

This book came to me as I was wrapping up ties in the Bay Area in the first half
of 2020. For the past several years, I have been undergoing the process of self
discovery, learning to listen to the inner machinations of my person. It is
vast, scary, and enlivening to open this world. There is no going back.

Books like this help set me at ease. Allow me to know that the sentiment is
shared outside. Others have experienced this, and navigated its difficulties and
ecstasies.

In these letters, I find myself more at ease in my world. There are particularly
excellent letters on Love and Loss.

My main point of disagreement with Rilke's viewpoint is that all of this must be
"difficult" or be beared "heavily". My world view is to bear this heavy burden
lightly, and with joy and appreciation. I believe that something being difficult
is more nuanced than what he mentions.
For example, breaking out of one's patterns for more personal satisfaction is
more difficult than staying comfortable in one's habits. It takes effort.
Though, with the right motivation, this should be a natural gravitation of a
person's direction. One perhaps should not dwell on the fact that they may be
inconvenienced by this weight, rather embrace that it is the direction which
must be taken.

To bear the heavy burdens of personhood lightly, that is my aim.

