# Mating in Captivity
Esther Perel

## Read
11/2019

## Tags
Sex Sexuality Intimacy Love Eroticism Therapist

## Quotes

For those who aspire to accelerate their heartbeat periodically, I give them the
score: excitement is interwoven with uncertainty, and with our willingness to
embrace the unknown rather than to shield ourselves from it. But this very
tension leaves us feeling vulnerable. I caution my patients that there is no
such thing as "safe sex." (Introduction xx)

Love, beyond providing emotional sustenance, compassion, and companionship, is
now expected to act as a panacea for existential aloneness as well (9)

What is different is that modern life has deprived us of our traditional
resources, and has created a situation in which we turn to one person for the
protection and emotional connections that a multitude of social networks used to
provide (9)

The perils of love are heightened by the particular modern pangs we bring to it.
We live miles away from our families, no longer know our childhood friends, and
are regularly uprooted and transplanted. All this discontinuity has a cumulative
effect. We bring to our romantic relationships an almost unbearable existential
vulnerability--as if love itself weren't dangerous enough (9)

The subjective experience of sexual pleasure is replaced by an objective list of
criteria that is easily indexed but woefully truncated: erection, intercourse,
orgasm (73)

Sex is divorced from emotional and social continuity. What is missing is a
sexuality that is integrated, in which pleasure flourishes in a context of
relatedness. I'm not talking only about deep love; I'm also talking about basic
care and appreciation for another person (92)

For Nico, sex is a play in one act. For Maria it is a continuum of pleasures, a
successive unfolding. The problem arises when they become trapped in a linear,
goal-oriented focus on intercourse and orgasm that bypasses eroticism (103)

Erotic intimacy is the revelation of our memories, wishes, fears, expectations,
and struggles within a sexual relationship. When our innermost desires are
revealed, and are met by our loved one with acceptance and validation, the shame
dissolves. It is an experience of profound empowerment and self-affirmation for
the heart, body, and soul (105)

Love and desire are not the same. Cozy is not the same as sexy. Your wife knows
you love her. What she wants is to feel desired by you. She wants to know your
hunger, to taste the delicate flavors of your craving, and to see it as a match
for her own. Your inability to let go, to surrender to your own hedonistic
designs, is infuriating to her. Your passivity is irritating, and your
considerateness is the opposite of her fantasy of unrestrained rapture. Your
lustiness would be an open endorsement of her own ardor. It's hard to let go
with someone who doesn't (119)

Desexualization of the mother is a mainstay of traditionally patriarchal
cultures, which maxes the sexual invisibility of modern western mothers seem
particularly acute. Perhaps it's our Puritan legacy that strips motherhood of
its sexual components; perhaps we are convinced that lustfulness conflicts with
maternal duty.
Of course, there is more than one America, and cultural differences abound
within this vast country. My friend June is quick to remind me that not all
Americans came here on the Mayflower. "Black people are certainly not spared our
share of sex problems, but we're definitely a lot less hung up than you white
folks," she says. "Sex is a natural part of life, not some big dirty secret. My
kids know I have sex; I knew my parents had sex. They'd put on Marvin Gaye, shut
the bedroom door, and tell us we'd better not knock" (144)

## Thoughts/Description

Interesting meanderings on topics such as eroticism, desire, and love.
Challenges many closely-held American ideals of what love or sex "should be". It
is more opening up the space to explore what it "could be".

It explores the needs of individual partners, and how this is met in various
forms within a relationship.

Thought provoking and sharply pointed, while still witty and light.

Good for thought.
