# Mutant Message Down Under
Marlo Morgan

## Read
12/2020

## Tags
Spiritual Aboriginal Australia Controversial Appropriation

## Quotes
Hopefully one's name will change several times in a lifetime as wisdom,
creativity, and purpose also become more clearly defined with time (46)

Humans cannot exist if everything that is unpleasant is eliminated instead of
understood (69)

Healing only has once source... Each person's healer is within (90)

[How you feel emotionally about things] is recorded in every cell of the body,
in the core of your personality, in your mind, and in your eternal self (94)

Slowing down the body allows us to look around and analyze the really important
wounds we need to mend: wounded relationships, gaping holes in our belief
system, walled-up tumors of fear, eroding faith in our Creator, hardened
emotions of unforgiveness, and so on (96)

Business is not real, it is just an agreement, yet the goal of business is to
stay in business regardless of the outcome on the people or the product and
services (107)

When thinking became flexible, joints became flexible. No pain, no more (117)

Most [Aboriginals] marched into the white man's world looking for the promised
goodness, which included unlimited food, and died in poverty, the legal form of
slavery (142)

But the big difference in humans now and the way they were originally is that
mutants have a core of fear. Real people have no fear. Mutants threaten their
children. They need law enforcement and prisons. Even government security is
based on threatening other countries with weapons. According to the tribe, fear
is an emotion of the animal kingdom. There it plays an important part in the
role of survival. But if humans know about Divine Oneness and understand that
the universe is not a haphazard event but is an unfolding plan, they cannot be
fearful. You either have faith or fear; not both. Things, they think, generate
fear. The more things you have, the more you have to fear. Eventually you are
living your life for things (152)

A gift is only a gift when you give someone what the person wants. It is not a
gift if you give what you want them to have (159)

We have taught the Mutant much, and we have learned from her. It seems Mutants
have something in their life called gravy. They know truth, but it is buried
under thickening and spices of convenience, materialism, insecurity, and fear.
They also have something in their lives called frosting. It seems to represent
how they spend almost all the seconds of their existence in doing superficial,
artificial, temporary, pleasant-tasting, nice-appearing projects and spend very
few actual seconds of their lives developing their eternal beingness (177)

## Thoughts/Description

Dear Kind Mr. Talk Story Owner,

あけましておめでとうございます！

My name is Brendan Smith, I am a half Japanese man who bought a copy of Mutant
Message Down Under from you about a month ago.

This is obviously your decision, but I would recommend you not continue to
proliferate this book.  After I finished the book and read the controversy on
the internet, I was reminded of my experience of reading Memoirs of a Geisha
many years ago. In that instance I was upset that I had consumed a fictitious
story which had been largely embellished and catered to a Western ear. Being a
part of the Japanese culture represented, I found that book particularly
troubling.

There are good nuggets of wisdom in this book, undoubtedly. But, to me, it seems
to be a fetishization of Native cultures by a somewhat-offensive new-ageAmerican
culture. The story seems to be largely untrue and readers can be tricked into
believing more than they should; while it is clearly labeled fiction, it still
includes supposed-testaments of legitimacy from Aboriginals.

People perhaps may just be better off knowing the controversy before consuming
this book whole-heartedly.

Sources: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marlo_Morgan
http://danny.oz.au/anthropology/notes/mutant-message.html
https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/truth-goes-walkabout-outback-aborigines-outraged-us-author-makes-million-new-age-fantasy-lost-tribe-bush-1389189.html
https://marlomorgan.wordpress.com/helping-yourself-fabrication-of-aboriginal-culture/

I am of the belief that this book should no longer be read. But I am not sure
what you believe.

Just wanted to share this opinion with you!

All the best,
Brendan
