# My Year of Meats
Ruth L. Ozeki

## Read
02/2019


## Tags
Meat Japanese-American Representation

## Quotes

Indeed, one's attachment to a man depends largely on the elegance of his
leave-taking. When he jumps out of bed, scurries about the room, tightly
fastening his trouser-sash, rolls up the sleeves of his Court cloak, over-robe,
or hunting costume, stuffs his belongings into the breast of his robe and then
briskly secures the outer sash--one really begins to hate him (50)

It was true. You never knew. How could you know if you wanted to get married or
not? At the time, when the prospect of a good marriage was offered to her, she'd
never even considered the possibility of an alternate desire. She had been
simply grateful. But now, after more than three years of marriage, she realized
that she might have had plenty of desires, but she gave them all up before she
even knew what they were (97)

Of course, there was an immediate outcry to ban DES in cattle feed. But cheap
meat is an inalienable right in the U.S.A., and an integral component of the
American dream, and the beef producers looked to cheap DES to provide it (126)

Middle America is all about drift and suspension. It's the pervasiveness of the
mall-culture mentality, all of life becomes an aimless wafting on currents of
synthesized sound, through the well-conditioned air (162)

A crack in consciousness is a dangerous thing. The slightest tremor can turn
into a gaping abyss. There was something else lurking in the darkened corners,
some fact trying to come to light (177)

These were tears of admiration for the strong women so determined to have their
family against all odds. And tears of pity for herself, for the trepidation she
felt in place of desire and for the pale, wan sentiment that she let pass for
love (181)

I know what denial looks like, and what it feels like too. It's a mercurial
flicker of recognition in the eye, quickly blanketed with a vagueness that
infuses the body like sluggish blood. It is opaque. Murky. Like wading through a
swampy dream that drags at your limbs, and no matter how hard you try, you can't
move forward. I know this feeling because I make television and try to walk
through it on a daily basis. It feeds on convention, cowers behind etiquette,
and the only way to deal with it is with a blunt frontal attack (273)

Only I try everything possible to make healthy baby--maybe take some pills,
maybe swallow nickel. I try everything (312)

This is the trouble with you. You think you want, you don't think you
want--alwas back and forth. Me, when I want, it is the whole heart. I look at
wanted thing with eyes straight on. But you! Neither here or there. Your looking
always crooked, from side of eye. It has no power to hold. So wanted thing, it
slip away from you (314)

Things that are near though distant. Paradise. The course of a boat. Relations
between a man and a woman (323)

'Secrets are like ghosts,' she says. 'Its like livin' with ghosts...' (327)

Editing my meat video was hard. It was not a TV show, which was what I'd become
accustomed to. It was a real documentary, the first I'd ever tried to make,
about an incredibly disturbing subject. There were no recipes, no sociological
surveys, no bright attempts at entertainment. So how tell the story?
Information about toxicity in foods is widely available, but people don't want
to hear it. Once in a while a story is spectacular enough to break through and
attract media attention, but the swell quickly subsides into the general glut of
bad news over which we, as citizens, have so little control.
Coming at us like this--in waves, massed and unbreachable--knowledge becomes
symbolic for our disempowerment bad knowledge--so we deny it, riding
its crest until it subsides from consciousness. I have heard myself protesting,
"I didn't know!" but this is not true. Of course I knew about toxicity in meat,
the unwholesomeness of large-scale factory farming, the deforestation of the
rain forests to make grazing land for hamburgers. Not a lot, perhaps, but I knew
a little. I knew enough. But I needed a job. So when 'My American Wife!' was
offered to me, I chose to ignore what I knew. "Ignorance." In this root sense,
ignorance is an act of will, a choice that one makes over and over again,
especially when information overwhelms and knowledge has become synonymous with
impotence.
I would like to think of my "ignorance" less as a personal failing and more as a
massive cultural trend, an example of doubling, of psychic numbing, that
characterizes the end of the millennium. If we can't act on knowledge, then we
can't survive without ignorance. So we cultivate the ignorance, go to great
lengths to celebrate it, even The faux-dumb aesthetic that dominates TV and
Hollywood must by about this. Fed on a media diet of really bad news, we live
in a perpetual state of repressed panic. We are paralyzed by bad knowledge, from
which the only escape is playing dumb. Ignorance becomes empowering because it
enables people to live. Stupidity becomes proactive, a political statement. Our
collective norm (334)

I am haunted by all the things--big things and little things, Splendid Things
and Squalid Things--that threaten to slip through the cracks, untold, out of
history(360)

We make a total fiction out of the facts of her life, and now, a year later, she
tells me that those facts have turned right around an aligned themselves with
our fiction. So go Figure (360)

However, unlike Shonagon, living in the Heian days, for whom modesty, however
false, was still a prerequisite, I live at the cusp of a new millenium. Whatever
people may think of my book, I will make it public, bring it to light
unflinchingly. That is the modern thing to do (361)
