# The Overstory
Michael Powers

## Read
01/2020

## Tags
Nature Spiritual Tree Humanity

## Quotes

That's the trouble with people, their root problem. Life runs alongside them,
unseen. Right here, right next. Creating the soil. Cycling water. Trading in
nutrients. Making weather. Building atmosphere. Feeding and curing and
sheltering more kinds of creatures than people know how to count (4)

The True Thing mean: human beings, so small. And life, so very big (30)

He's a seven year old little Rajput who knows that most of the world is a
present for him (91)

It amazes her that she never felt their sadness or noticed their distress (159)

The goal is almost patriotic: play in every playground. Have it all. Be
everything (180)

It smells like nothing but itself, pungent and sublime. She breathes in, eyes
closed, the tree's real name (183)

Her nose fills with a sachet beyond the crudity of words (184)

People have sex with strangers. People marry strangers. People spend half a
century in bed together and wind up strangers at the end (199)

She tells how... the world is inhabited magnificent creatures no one knows. How
it may take centuries to learn as much about trees as people once knew (219)

The psyche's job is to keep us blissfully ignorant of who we are, what we think,
and how we'll behave in any situation. We're all operating in a dense fog of
mutual reinforcement. Our thoughts are shaped primarily by legacy hardware that
evolved to assume that everyone else must be right. But even when the fog is
pointed out, we're no better at navigating through it (233)

The proposal is bound to sound odd or frightening or laughable. This is partly
because until the rightless thing receives its rights, we cannot see it as
anything but a thing for the use of "us"-- those who are holding the rights at
the time (250)

A third to a half of existing species may go extinct by the time I'm gone...
Tens of thousands of trees we know nothing about. Sepcies we've barely
classified. Like burning down the library, art museum, pharmacy, and hall of
records all at once (306)

'You're sure this is a good idea?' She asks herself; she asks the dead man. The
membrane between the two is thin. She knows she'll never see him again in this
life or any life to come. Yet she sees him wherever she looks. That's life; the
dead keep the living alive (423)

They sit together in the evening, reading and looking, as the sun glints
chartreuse off their chestnut's scalloped leaves. Every baring twig seems to
Dorothy like a trial creature, apart from but part of all the others. She sees
in the chestnut's branching the several speculative paths of a lived life, all
the people she might have been, the ones she could or will yet be, in worlds
spreading out alongside this one (443)

He's reached the age when dead is the new normal (447)

'A reporter once asked Rockefeller how much is enough. His answer: Just a little
bit more. And that's all we want: to eat and sleep, to stay dry and be loved,
and acquire just a little bit more' (451)

It strikes her that she envies him. His years of enforced tranquility, the
patience of his slowed mind, the expansion of his blinkered senses. He can watch
the dozen bare trees in the backyard for hours and see something intricate and
surprising, sufficient to his desires, while she--she is still trapped in a
hunger that rushes past everything (458)

She remembers the secret from her days onstage: Mobilize your inner will. Summon
all the memory of a lived life. Hold it in your head: Right and wrong. The
truth, self-evident. Nothing has more power than simple conviction (469)

The judge asks, 'Would you care to address any final words to the court?'
Thoughts ring in Adam's head. The verdicts have cut him loose, like windthrow or
fire. 'Soon we'll know if we were right or wrong.' (471)

Life has a way of talking to the future. It's called memory (482)

There are seeds that need fire. Seeds that need freezing. Seeds that need to be
swallowed, etched in digestive acid, expelled as waste. Seeds that must be
smashed open before they'll germinate (500)

## Thoughts/Description

A beautiful book. Makes me feel more human, more alive. To be a human in the
perspective of life, not a human in the perspective of society.

Makes you want to hug a tree.

Makes you want to run around reminding everyone that there is magic around us
and we are stifling it.

