# The Remains of the Day
Kazuo Ishiguro

## Read
11/2019

## Tags
Britain Memory Dignity WW2

## Quotes

The feeling swept over me that I had truly left Darlington Hall behind, and I
must confess I did feel a slight sense of alarm--a sense aggravated by the
feeling that I was perhaps not on the correct road at all, but speeding off in
totally the wrong direction into a wilderness (24)

I had been rather pleased with my witticism when it had first come into my head,
and I must confess I was slightly disappointed it had not been better received
than it was. I was particularly disappointed, I suppose, because I have been
devoting some time and effort over recent months to improving my skill in this
very area. That is to say, I have been endeavouring to add this skill to my
professional armoury so as to fulfil with confidence all Mr Farraday's
expectations with respect to bantering (130)

But what is the sense in forever speculating what might have happened had such
and such a moment turned out differently? One could presumably drive oneself to
distraction in this way. In any case, while it is all very well to talk of
'turning points', one can surely only recognize such moments in retrospect.
Naturally, when one looks back to such instances today, they may indeed take the
appearance of being crucial, precious moments in one's life; but of course, at
the time, this was not the impression one had. Rather, it was as though one had
available a never ending number of days, months, years in which to sort out the
vagaries of one's relationship with Miss Kenton; an infinite number of further
opportunities in which to remedy the effect of this or that misunderstanding.
There was surely nothing to indicate at the time that such evidently small
incidents would render whole dreams forever irredeemable (179)

Harry's always going around trying to work everybody up over issues. But the
truth is, people are happier left alone (209)

## Thoughts/Description

A brilliant book, no doubt.

