# The Will to Change
bell hooks

## Read
04/2019

## Tags
masculinity feminism male-love

## Quotes

The reality is that men are hurting and the whole culture responds to them
saying, "Please do not tell us what you feel." I have been a fan of the Sylvia
cartoon where two women sit, one looking into a crystal ball as the other woman
says, "He never talks about his feelings." And the woman who can see the future
says, "At two P.M. all over the world men will begin to talk about their
feelings--and women all over the world will be sorry." (6)

I often use the phrase â€˜imperialist white-supremacist capitalist patriarchy'
to describe the interlocking political systems that are the foundation of our
nation's politics (17)

Men do oppress women. People are hurt by rigid sexist role patterns. These two
realities coexist. Male oppression of women cannot be excused by the recognition
that there are ways men are hurt by rigid sexist roles. Feminist activists
should acknowledge that hurt, and work to change it--it exists. It does not erase
or lessen male responsibility for supporting and perpetuating their power under
patriarchy to exploit and oppress women in a manner far more grievous than the
serious psychological stress and emotional pain caused by male conformity to
rigid sexist role patterns (26)

Until we can collectively acknowledge the damage patriarchy causes and the
suffering it creates, we cannot address mail pain. We cannot demand for men the
right to be whole, to be givers and sustainers of life(30)

Where and how do boys learn what it means to be a man? They seem to learn it all
too often from the mass media and from the most visible males in their
community, particularly their peers. Boys' friends are their arbitrators of what
is masculine and what is feminine, so resilience among the boys in a community
depends upon changing macho attitudes among male peer groups and broadening
their concept of what a real man is and does (38)

Feminist theory has offered us brilliant critiques of patriarchy and very few
insightful ideas about alternative masculinity (39)

There are few male models for grieving... most adults are more comfortable
confronting a raging teenager than one who is overwhelmed by sorrow and cannot
stop weeping (51)

In patriarchal culture women are as violent as men toward the groups that they
have power over and can dominate freely; usually that group is children or
weaker females. Like its male counterpart, much female violence toward children
takes the form of emotional abuse, especially verbal abuse and shaming, hence it
is difficult to document (63)

There will always come a moment when patriarchy will ask [mothers] to sacrifice
their sons. Usually this moment comes in adolescence, when many caring and
affectionate mothers stop giving their sons emotional nurturance for fear it
will emasculate them. Unable to cope with the loss of emotional connection, boys
internalize the pain and mask it with indifference or rage (65)

In the past 10 years mass media have produced a number of movies aimed at boys
that glorify war... that once again make it appear heroic to die alone, away
from home, fighting for a cause you may or may not understand (71)

Everywhere men are in power, controlling virtually all the economic, political,
and social institutions of society. Yet individual men do not feel powerful--far
from it (83)

To take the inherent positive sexuality of males and turn it into violence is the
patriarchal crime that is perpetuated against the male body (84)

Homophobia becomes amplified  among heterosexual men because its overt
expression is useful as a way to identify, among apparently similar macho men,
who is gay and who is straight (87)

Women with class privilege have been the only group who have perpetuated the
notion that men are all-powerful, because often the men in their families were
powerful (99)

When we love someone and feel loved by them, somehow along the way our suffering
subsides, our deepest wounds begin healing, and our hearts start to feel safe
enough to be vulnerable and to open a little wider. We begin experiencing our
own emotions and the feelings of those around us (104)

Only a feminist vision that embraces feminist masculinity, that loves boys and
men and demands on their behalf every right that we desire for girls and women,
can renew men in our society (111)

Teachers of children see gender equality mostly in terms of ensuring that girls
get to have the same privileges and rights as boys within the existing social
structure; they do not see it in terms of granting boys the same rights as
girls--for instance the right to choose not to engage in aggressive or violent
play, the right to play with dolls, to play dress up, to wear costumes of either
gender, the right to choose (111)

We must first replace the dominator model with a partnership model... In a
partnership model male identity, like its female counterpart, would be centered
around the notion of an essential goodness that is inherently relationally
oriented (117)

Despite the successes of the feminist movement, the socialization of boys--the
making of patriarchal masculine identity--has not been radically altered.
Feminist writing, whether fiction or theory, rarely focuses on male change (140)

Talking with men, I have been stunned when individual males would confess to
sharing intense feelings with a male buddy, only to have that buddy either
interrupt, to silence the sharing, offer no response, or distance himself. Men
of all ages who want to talk about feelings usually learn not to go to other men
(144)

## Thoughts/Description

This book makes me feel things so intensely. It digs up much of the pain I have
felt growing up, and recognize myself having undergone.

It articulates male pain in a way I did not know could be articulated. Having
this articulation allows for understanding and recognition. That which cannot be
named cannot be understood, cannot be addressed. To have the vocabulary to
describe male pain from patriarchy is to be liberated from darkness, even if
what is illuminated is not beautiful.

I do not know how the readings of books like this will change my direction. It
does feel incredibly important, much more important than, lets say, software
engineering.

